# 2026-02-09

1. "Muddiest Moment" - At the end of each day, look at my notes and identify at least one thing that was not fully clear to me.

2. Every morning after today, we will start by being asked:
    - What do you remember that was helpful from yesterday?
    - What was cool and you want to know more about?

## Notes
- "TFS" - "Team Foundation Server" - a Microsoft tool for source code control
    - It is centralized version control. It is not the best.
- Git is decentralized/distributed
- GitHub used to be not Microsoft, now is Microsoft
- Azure DevOps (ADO or AzDO) - also Microsoft
    - "for big companies"
    - GitHub and Azure are pretty much the same thing nowadays
- What do you store in source code control (git)?
    - code that you and your team OWN and change
    - don't store other stuff there
        - libraries you use - explicitly declare and isolate dependencies
        - other teams code
- How can I have all source code AND all the history on every machine?
    - you have the current version you've fetched
    - you have "Deltas" (patches) of all changes
    - usually that isn't too much
- Fetch frequently and push at least daily
    - get the latest changes as often as you can
    - don't let code ferment on your machine
- Structure your app and code in a way that no two devs should have any excuse to work on the same file at the same time
    - this is why we tend to have "lots of small files"
    - organizing our code base around "business features" insteadof technical concerns
- Environments:
    - all the different places your code runs
    - places where the configuration is different
    - Goal: always have the same code running in each environment from left to right as much as possible
    - typical environments:
        - Devevelopment (dev)
        - Test / Staging (QA / UAT)
        - Production (prod)
    - If you can replicate as closely as possible the production environment in every environment, you'll have less production issues. Duh
- The less your app relies on, the better. Duh
- Take as few dependencies as possible.
- "Service Oriented Architecture (SOA)"
    - primary architecture of many big companies
- Developer Testing is so important
- We want some tests that say "this version won't break out contracts"
- Containers (a.k.a. Docker) let you run software that:
    - won't break other things on your machine (they're in a protective container)
    - and match what you have in other environments (dev/prod parity).
- Docker has "docker compose" that lets you run a bunch of things
- "Aspire" - it lets you create a local dev environment AND makes it so that can be deployed
    - we will not do the deploying
- Our app:
    - Angular 21 application
    - .NET Core 10 API
    - Postgres DB
    - OIDC/Oauth 2
- https://mm.hypertheory-labs.dev